.Dd March 5, 2026
.Dt OSCMIX 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm oscmix
.Nd RME Fireface mixer OSC bridge
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dl
.Op Fl r Ar recvaddr
.Op Fl s Ar sendaddr
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
implements an OSC API for RME Fireface devices running in
class-compliant mode, allowing full control of the device through OSC.
.Pp
It expects file descriptors 6 and 7 to be open for reading and
writing MIDI messages to the device.
To set these up on Linux, use
.Xr alsarawio 1
or
.Xr alsaseqio 1 .
On macOS, use
.Xr coremidiio 1 .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Enable debug messages.
.It Fl l
Disable level meters.
.It Fl r Ar recvaddr
The address on which to listen for OSC messages.
By default,
.Nm
listens on
.Cm udp!127.0.0.1!7222 .
.It Fl s Ar sendaddr
The address on which to send OSC messages.
By default,
.Nm
sends to
.Cm udp!127.0.0.1!8222 .
.It Fl m
Shorthand for
.Fl s Cm udp!224.0.0.1!8222 .
.El
.Sh ADDRESS FORMAT
Addresses are specified using the syntax
.Ar proto!addr!port .
.Pp
Currently, the only supported protocol is
.Cm udp .
.Pp
Alternatively, you can specify a file descriptor number instead.
Note that OSC relies on write boundaries being preserved, so this
file descriptor should refer to some open message-oriented socket.
.Sh SUPPORTED DEVICES
The following RME Fireface devices are supported when running in
class-compliant mode:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
RME Fireface 802
.It
RME Fireface UCX
.It
RME Fireface UCX II
.It
RME Fireface UFX+
.It
RME Fireface UFX II
.It
RME Fireface UFX III
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Start
.Nm
using alsaseqio with port 3 of a Fireface UFX III:
.Pp
.Dl alsaseqio -p 'Fireface UFX III:3' -f 6,7 oscmix
.Pp
Start
.Nm
using alsarawio with raw MIDI device hw:0,0,3:
.Pp
.Dl alsarawio hw:0,0,3 oscmix
.Pp
On BSD, open the device directly:
.Pp
.Dl oscmix 6<>/dev/rmidi1 7>&6
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr alsarawio 1 ,
.Xr alsaseqio 1 ,
.Xr coremidiio 1
